---
title: "Why"
bg: grey
color: black
fa-icon: question
---

# Why use dbcollection?

dbcollection provides a cross-platform, cross-language framework to manage datasets and to quickly load/fetch data with minimal resources wasted. Plus, it contains a list of diverse datasets to work with.

The main goal of this project is to help save time for users when developing/deploying/sharing their work.

## Reasons why you should use dbcollection
{: style="margin-top:70px;margin-bottom:40px;"}

Here are some of the problems dbcollection tries to solve:

- Downloading, extracting and parsing different datasets without prior knowledge of their inner workings is sometimes error prone.
- Constantly writting the same boilerplate code or adapting existing one for new projects is a hassle.
- Disk space gets littered with data files everywhere as you work on different projects with no centralized storage.
- Wasted time and computer resources (mostly memory) when loading large datasets.
- Many datasets use `.json` files to distribute their (meta)data, which is fine for smaller datasets, but they are not an efficient solution to store large amounts of (meta)data for large datasets.
- Usually trying new datasets means that you will have to spend a significant portion of your time learning how to use it so you can load/parse it. And good luck if those datasets are distributed using some complicated, in house format that can only be extracted by using a specific toolbox (e.g., Caltech Pedestrian).
- Having to learn a toolboxe (and languages maybe) to fetch data for a given dataset that you just want to try it out before doing anything serious is not viable at all or, at best, a tedious task.
- If you start using a new language you'll probably write the same scripts to load/parse your datasets.
